GONG, Yifei 
Mobile:         (+65) 8374 1650, (+86)[PHONE] 
Email:            [EMAIL]
LinkedIn:       www.linkedin.com/in/gong-yifei-nina
Languages:   English (Business), Chinese (Native)



SUMMARY 
Internship exposures to E-Commerce and Securities domains, gaining valuable insights into digital marketing strategies and financial analysis.
Experience of data processing, analysis report writing and data visualization.
Equipped with effective workplace communication skills and a knack for establishing rapport with others.
SKILLS
Financial skills: Financial analysis, Data analytics, Statistics, Econometrics, Analysis Report writing, Machine learning, Data visualization.
Technical skills: Proficient in MS Office, Python, R, SQL, Tableau; familiar with Google Earth Engine (GEE).
Soft skills: Adept at team collaboration, Effective communication, Excelling in time management and multitasking.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
Xiaohongshu (E-Commerce), China	2022/12 – 2023/03
Strategic Intern
Explore strategies for Xiaohongshu to enhance user acquisition and achieve substantial user base expansion. Utilized insights from DAU and MAU changing trends to categorize growth stages for 10+ competing applications and comprehensively analyzed user behavior changes at each stage. Created visually impactful line charts based on findings which are used in final reports.
Conducted a thorough analysis of the mobile app market, curating and synthesizing over 30 pages of content on social media app development trends. Delivered a concise review of product introductions from 6 top mobile phone brands over a three-year period. Applied Python to process and analyze a vast dataset of over 10,000 entries, pinpointing applications with notable DAU growth in 2022. Authored five detailed analytical reports and provided regular updates to aid the team's strategic choices.
Contributed to the weekly report generation, closely examining on the product, operational, and regulatory shifts among competitors. Diligently tracked and interpreted fluctuations in user growth across competing products by analyzing essential metrics such as DAU and MAU.
Tianfeng Securities Co., Ltd, China	2020/11 – 2021/03
Financial Analyst Assistant (Internship)
Conducted in-depth analyze into the HR SaaS sector within the TMT industry, focusing on current business conditions, China's market size, and a comparison with leading American players. Delved into a prominent Chinese HR SaaS company to analyze its financial performance, business prospects, future earnings, and expansion plans. Completed a 40+ page in-depth industry report and a 20+ page company-specific report to guide strategic planning.
Focused on autonomous driving chip market by evaluating functionality of chips of various manufacturers and keeping track of collaboration among chip manufacturers and automakers, laying groundwork for a preliminary report.
Gathered and organized index data and news announcements of listed companies by using Wind terminal, paying special attention to technical forums and conferences of listed companies, and summarized meeting minutes.
Heilongjiang Hongyuantaisi Tax Accountant Office Co., Ltd	2019/06 – 2019/08
Auditing Assistant of Financial Department (Internship)
Participated in on-site tax-related risk audit project of a large-scale bank. Gained valuable experience in data analysis and documentation.
Reviewed detailed data vouchers of account sets, applied sampling principles for bills and invoices to comply with accounting and tax laws.
Analyzed items eligible for deductions according to tax law and structured data to create audit draft.
EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Bicycle Rental System Design	2023/07 – 2023/08
As the core developer in team, designed an OOP-based system for Singapore's bicycle rental businesses, integrating inventory management, rental, payment, and return functionalities. Additionally, it can generate a daily sales report for end-of-day performance insights.
Culminate in over 600 lines of Python code and the development of a comprehensive 14-page user manual.
PingAn Inspirational Program	2020/08 – 2020/11
Detailed study of China's investment and finance APP market, completing a business plan for a program about making investment decisions.
Advanced to finals from over 9,800 groups.
EDUCATION
MSc Business Analytics, Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore	2023/07 – 2024/12 (expected)
Bachelor of Financial Engineering, Finance School, Nankai University, China	2018/09 – 2022/06
INTERESTS
Volunteering (accumulated over 300 volunteer hours to-date)
Core volunteer of Centennial Celebration of Nankai University. Recruited over 2,000 volunteers for centennial celebration of Nankai University.
The 10th National Paralympic Games: helped maintain order at training venues and taught athletes on how to deal with emergencies.