Xue Qin
[EMAIL] | [PHONE] | https://www.linkedin.com/in/xue-qin-sherry/ | Arlington, VA, US 

education
Georgetown University	Washington, DC
Master of Data Science and Analytics	Expected 05/25
GPA: Pending, currently in first semester of program.
 
University of Minnesota, Twin Cities	Minneapolis, MN
Bachelor of Science in Business | Finance (Major); Computer Science (Minor); German (Minor) 	05/23
GPA: 3.87/4.0 (Dean’s list from 2020-2022)
Honors & Awards: Top 6 in the China Bridge Case Competition, Top 10 in the Tri-college Math Competition

skills 
Technical Skills: Python, R, SQL (MySQL, PostgreSQL), Java, HTML, CSS, MATLAB
Libraries/Framework: Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-learn, Beautifulsoup, Matplotlib, SciPy
Machine Learning: Covariance matrix optimization, Classification (Random Forest, KNN), Regression Modeling (linear, sparse, logistic, regularized), clustering(K-means)
Stats & Experimentation: Time-Series Analysis, hypothesis testing, Monte-Carlo simulation, financial forecasting, Covariance and correlation modeling
Language Skills: Chinese (native), English (proficient), German (proficient), Japanese (elementary)
 
Work experience
Sichuan Port and Shipping Group Yungang Technology Co., Ltd | Data Operation Intern	06/23 - 07/23
Extracted and analyzed 300+ data outputs using SQL, crafted 100+ charts and 5+ data dashboards with Tableau, and reported key insights in daily meetings, achieving a 20% improvement in data demands solution efficiency.
Developed a Python-based accounting write-off model, achieving a 50% reduction in processing time and enhancing efficiency for over 5000+ Accounts Receivable (A/R) write-off entries.
Led a team of 7, collaborating with senior data analysts to clean and validate data from 300+ historical trading records across 5 branch companies by Python, integrating the data into the SPSI trading system, ensuring seamless data flow and accuracy.
Diagnosed and rectified system bugs in collaboration with the IT department, enhancing data architecture reliability, and leveraging data insights to recommend and contribute to the blueprint of a more scalable and efficient database infrastructure.

Tao Capital Management (Beijing) | Data Research Intern	06/22 - 08/22
Employed web crawler for 1000+ medical companies' data, underwent data cleaning, and utilized Python for in-depth evaluation of company’s industrial classification, strength, and performance, highlighting 5 potential high-value investment targets.
Processed and analyzed 3000+ global medical investment events using the Python Jieba package for text cleaning, executed Natural Language Processing (NLP) to distill key information and insights from investment events.
Applied the Naive Bayes algorithm to forecast investment trends and leveraged Tableau for intuitive data visualization, presented key insights in the topic meetings through slides, ensuring stakeholders were well-informed of potential market shifts.
Spearheaded industry background research cross-functionally, meticulously executed due diligence checks, and authored 8 comprehensive industry analysis reports, aiding the firm in making data-informed decisions.
 
Research projects
Apple Products Popularity Analysis | Georgetown DSAN Program Course Project	09/23 - present
Scraped and aggregated 4000+ text-based opinions on Apple Products from Weibo, using Python, R, NewsAPI, and TwitterAPI, conducted tokenization and stopword removal, leading to an Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) and sentiment analysis.
Acquired mobile phone product data, developed a supervised Bayesian model, and fine-tuned it using Variance Threshold and Correlation feature selection, resulting in an 8% increase in the test accuracy to 90%.
Engineered a Decision Tree model for both regression and classification tasks, effectively gauging customer purchase intentions.
Generated a data-driven report with actionable insights into market dynamics, employing Association Rule Mining (ARM) to discern customer preferences for Apple products and those of competitor brands.
 
E-commerce Sales Analytics project | Supervised by Kinfey Lo, Cloud Advocate, Microsoft (China) Co., Ltd.	10/22 - 12/22
Conducted comprehensive data cleaning and EDA on a vast 4-year dataset comprising 50,000+ e-commerce sales orders using Python, pinpointed a 15% YOY sales growth, and revealed key performance metrics segmented by year, branch, and quarter.
Crafted an RFM (Recency, Frequency, Monetary) model to segregate customers based on engagement, loyalty, and contribution.
Presented insights from the RFM model through compelling visualizations in PowerBI, which provided crucial business insights that informed marketing strategies, leading to a 25% increase in monthly customer retention.