Xinrong (Kalyan) Yan
Address: New York, Manhattan| Phone: [PHONE] | [EMAIL]
EDUCATION
New York University 	New York, USA
Bachelor of Arts; Major in Mathematics and Computer Science GPA: 3.833 / 4.0	Expected May 2026
Relevant courses: Calculus 3, linear Algebra, Financial, Management&Accounting
SKILLS AND INTERESTS
Languages: Mandarin (Native), English (Fluent)
Technical skills:  Microsoft Office, Excel, Java, Python 
Interests: Basketball(insist on playing for 8 years), golf, swimming, running, traveling (backpacked to 10 countries), and working out. 
Honors and awards: Global Bronze Award at British Olympics 2021; Regional Award in International Economics Olympics 2021; Innovation Award in 2020 National Economics Challenge China Finals
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
HP Tech Ventures	Remote at NYC, NY
Venture Capital & Business Analytics Externship	07/2023 – 09/2023
Conducted in-depth research on start-up metrics, team structure, and business models, including various verticals, market size, macro trends, and major players across the tech industry from reports, articles, and videos and familiarized HPTV investment criteria to find potential deals.
Sourced 100 + startups with technology to benefit the Z-Central workstation, evaluated 20+ product differentiation and competitive advantage, or formulated strategic recommendations by collecting data from industry reports, news articles, market research, and databases like Crunchbase, Pitchbook, or CS Insights to gain for these diverse startup ventures. 
Dealt with hundreds of data cleaning methods and tools, such as Open Refine, to maintain data accuracy and integrity. Performed correlation analysis to find out the trend correlation among these data. A regression analysis was conducted to calculate the F and R values from these data.
Utilized SQL and Excel to perform EDA based on Open Refine data, extracting summary values and trends critical to investment decision-making. Developed visually engaging data presentations, including charts and graphs, employing various data visualization techniques.
Summarized qualitative and quantitative analysis, drafted into a deck, and delivered a presentation report to pitch the most attractive startup Recommending attractive start-ups for further investment due diligence
Hunan Fuhe Jinrong Technology Company Limited	Changsha, China
Finance Assistant Intern	06/2022 – 12/2022
Assisted the Chief Financial Officer in managing the allocation of grassroots positions within the company, including handling procedures for new employee onboarding, departures, and job transfers. Assessed and managed employee training and promotions.
Reviewed financial statements, applied for invoices, purchased receipts, prepared and submitted accounting reports, and assisted in processing tax return forms. Performed daily
Recorded data related to customer service and suppliers and conducted weekly reconciliations with departmental salespeople.
Communicated with the Chief Financial Officer weekly about insights into the company's product knowledge and financial-related expertise.
EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Stern Business Analytics Club          New York, USA 	2023.02 - Present
Perform pre- and post-publicity for various activities organized by the club internally and provide more professional planning, advice, and services for the activities to convey the activities' information and the club's philosophy.
Deliver information every Friday released by the university to club members in the first instance, and provide timely feedback on their opinions and suggestions.
Organized and participated in business analysis skills training every Friday afternoon regularly to improve skills in business analysis.
Assist other departments of the club to make their work better.
